---
layout: post
title: "第8期： Manifold Learning and Artificial Intelligence"
author: Momiao Xiong 
date: 2022-10-06
categories: news
image: images/Momiao_Xiong.jpg
tags: bioinformatics, GWAS, Genomics, Disease, Human
---

- 题目： Manifold Learning and Artificial Intelligence
- 时间：美国东部时间-10月6日-周六晚上-10：00pm（星期六）
- Zoom会议 ID：933 1613 9423
- Zoom会议 密码：416262

* Manifold learning is a popular and quickly-growing subfield of machine learning based on the assumption that one's observed data lie on a low-dimensional manifold embedded in a higher-dimensional space

* Manifolds are the fundamental surfaces that data is found on. Once you have a manifold to describe your data, you can make predictions about the remaining space.Jan 6, 2019

* Principal Component Analysis (PCA) is very useful to speed up the computation by reducing the dimensionality of the data. Plus, when you have high dimensionality with high correlated variable of one another, the PCA can improve the accuracy of classification model.

* Whereas PCA attempts to create several linear hyperplanes to represent dimensions, much like multiple regression constructs as an estimation of the data, manifold learning attempts to learn manifolds, which are smooth, curved surfaces within the multidimensional space .

* Manifold learning is an approach to non-linear dimensionality reduction. Algorithms for this task are based on the idea that the dimensionality of many data sets is only artificially high.

* A manifold is a topological space that is locally Euclidean (i.e., around every point, there is a neighborhood that is topologically the same as the open unit ball in. ). To illustrate this idea, consider the ancient belief that the Earth was flat as contrasted with the modern evidence that it is round.

* Geometric deep learning (GDL) is based on neural network architectures that incorporate and process symmetry information. GDL bears promise for molecular modelling applications that rely on molecular representations with different symmetry properties and levels of abstraction.

* The manifold assumption in machine learning is that, instead of assuming that data in the world could come from every part of the possible space (e.g., the space of all possible 1-megapixel images, including white noise), it makes more sense to assume that training data come from relatively low-dimensional manifolds 