---
layout: post
title: "Deep Anomaly Detection with Input Perturbation"
author: Dr. Yizhou Wang, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Northeastern University, Boston, Massachusetts
date: 2023-05-26
categories: news
image: images/Yizhou_Wang.jpg
tags: AI, Ensemble,Deep Learning, image, synthetic data, R&D, pharmaceutical, biomedicine
---

- Title：MAIB-Talk-015: Deep Anomaly Detection with Input Perturbation
- Date：10:00pm US East time, 06/03/2023
- Date：10:00am Beijing time, 06/04/2023
- Zoom  ID：933 1613 9423
- Zoom PWD：416262
- Zoom: [https://uwmadison.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJcudu-prTIuGNda1MsF8PKyRQlnGn06TP2E](https://uwmadison.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJcudu-prTIuGNda1MsF8PKyRQlnGn06TP2E)

<p align="center">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/YC1GhRFNs8U" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

Bio

Yizhou Wang received the B.S. degree in Mathematics and Applied Mathematics (Honors Program) from the School of Mathematics and Statistics, Xi’an Jiaotong University, Xi’an, China, in 2020. He is currently working toward the Ph.D. degree in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Northeastern University, Boston, Massachusetts, under the supervision of Prof. Yun Raymond Fu. His research interests include machine learning, computer vision and data mining. He has published some papers at top-tier conferences including ICLR, CVPR, CIKM, ICDM and IJCAI and top-tier journals including Nature Communications and SIAM Journal on Image Sciences. He has served as a Reviewer for TKDD, KAIS, ICML, NeurIPS, ICLR, CVPR, ECCV, KDD, AAAI, IJCAI, PAKDD, ICME, etc.

Abstract

Anomalies, also known as outliers, are defined as ``data instances that significantly deviate from the majority of data instances". Correspondingly, anomaly detection (AD) refers to the process of finding these anomalous data points out in a data-driven fashion, which has long been a fundamental problem in machine learning and has various real-world applications, including medical health, fraud detection, cybersecurity and video surveillance, etc. Though there has been tremendous success in anomaly detection using deep learning, current methods, e.g., autoencoder reconstruction-based methods, fail to excavate the data characteristics well and there exist performance bottlenecks in both visual data and tabular data anomaly detection. In this talk, I will introduce our proposed methods which seamlessly incorporate input perturbation techniques into models in unsupervised one-class anomaly detection task and video anomaly detection task for performance improvements.